README.md, before:

# Create VM

## TP1 virtualisation automation on VMware

Making of a powershell script to automate the creation of 10 VM's

### Make a VM with the command New-VM with the following parameters:

- 1572 Mo of vRam
- 1 disk of 125 Mo on «ThickEagerZero» format
- 2 vCPU

### Make 10 VM's with a powershell script with the following:

- 10 parameters of your choice (including the previous 3)
- Sources the parameters from a .csv file
- Each action must be prompted colorfully to the terminal and written in the log file
- Notifications must be sent for each completed task

### 3 colorful HTML email reports:

- For the technician: reports for each error
- For the client: report on what's been done
- For the manager: statistical report on the completed tasks


### Notes

make a credentials.ps1 with the following lines

```ps1
$global:USER = 'esxi user name'
$global:PASSWORD = 'esxi user password'
$global:SERVER = 'esxi ip or hostname if dns is set'
$global:SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
$global:MANAGER_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
$global:REQUESTER_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
$global:TECHNICIAN_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
```

For help on how to setup you Gmail account to send email through the script follow this [post](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/185833)

Commit message:

encrypting passwords using carbon copy and fixings

README.md, after:

# Create VM

## TP1 virtualisation automation on VMware

Making of a powershell script to automate the creation of 10 VM's using PowerCLI (version 6.3).

## PREREQUISITES

> :warning: [!WARNING] You must have the following architecture:
  
- 2 ESXI setup (static ip...)
- a freenas server with at least on volume shared
- a VCenter server setup with the following:
  - a host cluster containing both ESXI
  - a storage cluster containing the shared volumes 

### Make a VM with the command New-VM with the following parameters:

- 1572 Mo of vRam
- 1 disk of 125 Mo on «ThickEagerZero» format
- 2 vCPU

### Make 10 VM's with a powershell script with the following:

- 10 parameters of your choice (including the previous 3)
- Sources the parameters from a .csv file
- Each action must be prompted colorfully to the terminal and written in the log file
- Notifications must be sent for each completed task

### 3 colorful HTML email reports:

- For the technician: reports for each error
- For the client: report on what's been done
- For the manager: statistical report on the completed tasks


### Notes

passwords for esxi connexion and gmail must be entered in an encrypted text file using the following commands:

```ps1
(get-credential).password | ConvertFrom-SecureString | set-content "create_vm\.esxi_password.secret"
(get-credential).password | ConvertFrom-SecureString | set-content "create_vm\.gmail_password.secret"
```

make a credentials.ps1 with the following lines

```ps1
$global:USER = 'esxi user name'
$global:SERVER = 'esxi ip or hostname if dns is set'
$global:SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
$global:MANAGER_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
$global:REQUESTER_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
$global:TECHNICIAN_EMAIL_ADDRESS = "email address"
```

For help on how to setup you Gmail account to send email through the script follow this [post](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/185833)
